Discuss layout macro (#19803)
qmk/qmk_firmware: docs/feature_split_keyboard.md

SPLIT_TRANSPORT = custom
```

### Layout Macro

> When configuring a split keyboard, note the matrix rows and pins are doubled, thus QMK views the layout as follows, where the numbers represent `row, col`:
> 
> IMG1
> 
> IMG2
> 
> Take care to define your layout in `info.json` accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Configuring your layout in a split keyboard works slightly differently to a non-split keyboard. Take for example, the following layout. The top left numbers refer to the matrix row and column, and the bottom right are the order of the keys in the layout:

![Physical layout](https://i.imgur.com/QeY6kMQ.png)

Since the matrix scanning procedure operates on entire rows, it first populates the left half's rows, then the right half's. Thus, the matrix as QMK views it has double the rows instead of double the columns:

![Matrix](https://i.imgur.com/4wjJzBU.png)
```

Author: This is a tremendous improvement! Thank you for taking the time to do this!

SPLIT_TRANSPORT = custom
```

### Layout Macro

> When setting `SPLIT_KEYBOARD = yes`, row pins are automatically doubled.
> This is because QMK views a split keyboard as follows, with the numbers
> representing row, column:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When configuring a split keyboard, note the matrix rows and pins are doubled, thus QMK views the layout as follows, where the numbers represent `row, col`:
```

IMG1

> IMG2

Reviewer 2: These aren't valid markdown images. Also, please beautify the images you're proposing a bit.
eg. crop/center/remove unnecessary borders/etc.

Author: Yes, I didn't know how to go about uploading the image.

I also didn't create this images, @fauxpark did, and might be able to fulfill your request.

Reviewer 2: Imgur would be the preferred way to host them. The changes can be done by you, but here
[https://i.imgur.com/2bYyl07.png](https://i.imgur.com/2bYyl07.png)
[https://i.imgur.com/gGyCL1C.png](https://i.imgur.com/gGyCL1C.png)

Author: Sorry, I misunderstood the request. Appreciate you doing that!

Author: @fauxpark provided new images and text below since my last visit. Marking as resolved.
